From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan and announcing show
number 49. Recorded Tuesday, January 30th, 2007.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by slash N software
red carpet subscriptions. The most
comprehensive solution for adding connectivity
to your.net and asp.net applications
with components for every major
internet protocol online@wwwdotnsoftware.com. Support is
also provided by.net developers journal
the world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott talks with PowerShell developer,
Bruce Payette. Welcome to Hansel
minutes. Here's another episode. I'm
Scott Hanselman. Carl's taken a
break on this show and
I am sitting down with
Bruce Payette of Microsoft and
PowerShell fame. I've done a
couple of talks on PowerShell
before, and you know that
I'm a PowerShell fan boy
and a big fan of
Jeffrey snuffers Jefferson over one
of the architects of PowerShell
and Jeffrey. When I was
interviewing him for channel nine
was very quick to throw
the credit Bruce's way. When
it comes to the designing
of the language, he called
you a, a language encyclopedia,
Bruce, it's a hobby. So
I guess that's kind of
true. And how much history
do you have as far
as programming language? How many,
how many different languages do
you know to say how
many, you know, it's, it's
a question of what do
you use currently? And so
I've played with probably hundreds
of different languages at different
times, but what am I
fluent with at any given
time? These days it's powers,
PowerShell and C sharp more
than anything else, but I
was a big fan of
tickle. I spent a lot
of time doing Unix style,
scripting languages, working at MKS,
who did the mortars mortars,
current tools, a toolkit, which
was unique tools on dos.
We did a lot of
stuff with Posics and standardizing
the unit scripting languages. How
many, I think you probably
have an opinion about the
quote unquote, the young kids
these days, probably myself included
folks. If you've had hundreds
of languages that you've been
exposed to. I think my
first language was C I'm
about near my I'm in
my mid thirties. My first
language was, see I've done
Phoebe little Haskell, some tickle,
but probably not more than
a dozen languages. How important
is it for someone in
2007 as a programmer to
have that historical context around
all the different languages out?
I don't know that it's
necessarily all that important. It's
good to have an understanding
of, of sort of the
range and capabilities of a
language, but actually under his
Helzberg, who is the architect
of C sharp makes a
really good point that the
languages themselves are becoming less
interesting. And it's really the
libraries that matter and the
same points being brought up
for Pearl, but a Pearl
as a language is not
that interesting. It's C pan
it's all the libraries. CPN
is the language of the
internet and pearls just syntaxes.
I think the quote, but
understanding, having, having a good
understanding of especially languages like
Haskell, just to get a
sense of the range. I
know most introductory computer science
courses start teaching that easily
teach a fairly conventional language
like Java and then something,
a little stranger. It used
to be prologue. It's probably
Haskell this week, but it
gives people a sense of
the, the range of expression.
I mean, after all languages
are designed for people, not
for computers, computers just care
about bits and bytes. If
you can't express your ideas
in a language and it's
not much good. Yeah, exactly.
It's all about expressing your
intent as clearly as possible.
When I use the term
conventional language, I assume that
Java C-sharp VB are all
kind of conventional languages with
fairly straightforward procedural constructs, right?
Pretty much, yes. Why is
it that quote, unquote unconventional
languages aren't mainstream. They haven't
been for a long time
for a variety of reasons.
Implementations not good implementations was
part of it. They required
certain early versions of small
talk, for example, required very,
very powerful hardware. And not
everybody could afford that. Now
we have machines with very
powerful, powerful hardware. That's not
an issue anymore. And we're
starting to see some of
the features of some of
the more advanced languages coming
into the mainstream. And probably
the best example of this
is the link stuff that's
coming with.  did you
look at it and you
think, Oh, that's not really
all that radical, but Eric Meyer
has this wonderful talk that
I'd love to track down
somewhere where he talks about
how they basically took a
lot of the functional programming
elements of Haskell and made
them mainstream. And I think
that's really interesting. Finally, some
of the really interesting ideas
in programming language research are
starting to get into the
mainstream. So talk for our,
for our listeners who may
not necessarily be familiar with
some of the things that
are coming with C-sharp three.
Oh, and I want to
tie that back into PowerShell.
How, explain to me what
a Lambda is and why
that keeps coming up. So
a Lambda is also, we
call them script blocks and
PowerShell. It's an anonymous function.
So it's a, the function
body exists without any particular
name. And you can pass
them around as first class
objects they've actually been in
C-sharp since two Oh in
the form of anonymous delegates.
And Java has well, Devin
doesn't have Lambdas really as
such where they have anonymous
inter classes. So you still
have this idea of, of
an anonymous chunk of code
drifting around, and that gives
you some very powerful programming
capabilities. So in PowerShell the
language properly, to be clear,
I spoken to the people
in the PowerShell team and
they all say, Oh yeah,
it's a language. It's a
whole complete grammar. It's, it's,
it's a programming language, but
we're not compiling to it,
but it is a whole
distinct thing, right? It's not
just a mishmash of a
bunch of different languages. It
has a, has a whole
formal grammar. That's right. And
if I include the grammar
at the, at the end
of the book, I think
Jeffrey has published part of
the grammar on the PowerShell
blog site at one point
as well. But it's true
of, I mean, the, the
corn shell, for example, one
of the things that the
AAA did with the public
standards was actually capture the
Cornell grammar and publish it.
So it's not does this.
Most of the shells are
languages. Some are more powerful
than others. Of course, he
tried to make the most
powerful. Now the book you
mentioned of course, is PowerShell
in action, and I've made
it about three quarters of
the way through some, some
galleys of it. And I've,
I've said to a lot
of people that this is
going to be fantastic. I
really, really enjoyed the first
three chapters. The amount of
information that kind of ramps
you up into the whole
kind of gestalt of PowerShell
is very, very quickly. And
very clearly, I think a
lot of people have trouble
when they see PowerShell for
the first time, because it
seems like it's just so
different from, from what I
think people who don't have
a historical perspective are used
to, to, to sit, you
know, just sit down and
start and start going with,
with PowerShell. Once you reached
that, I don't know that
level of familiarity. You kind
of go over that hump
and then you can just
start to start running. Right?
And, and actually somebody did
a blog posting recently saying
the first four minutes are
the hardest. And what's one
of the things that we
did. We made a conscious
decision early on that we're
designing a tool for professional
users. It's not, it used
to be the dos was
the, the old command shell
was how you worked with
windows. And so it had
to be easy. It had
to be easy enough for
the entire range of users
to use. That's not an
issue so much anymore because
that's the role of the
gooey now. So what we
were doing was creating a
tool that would allow professionals
to do their job as
effectively as possible. And these
are people who will work
with this tool day in
and day out. And so
we traded off a little
bit of ease of learning
for a whole lot of
power and ease of use.
Okay. So the first four
minutes were not really a
priority in the designing of
language. I don't suppose designed
anything in to make it
obvious or intuitive for that
first few minutes of use.
We did to some extent.
So if you under, we
have a lot of aliases.
So the basic navigation in
the show, if you typed
her and it'll work and
you type CD, and it
will work, and whether you're
a Unix user, you can
type LS and it will
work. So you have some
basic navigation. There's a, there's
enough out of the box
that you can do the
kind of things that you
would do in a traditional
shell pretty easily. It's when
you start to get into
the more advanced programming stuff.
That again, they're going to,
there's a lot of stuff
in, in the sense that
we have tab completion. So
you, you have tools for
exploring objects. You don't have
to sit down and, and
read a book or, or,
or go to the website
to look at an object.
You can explore it directly
in the PowerShell environment. So
in that sense, we do
provide a lot of stuff
to help you get going.
But we assume that, that
you have some amount of
knowledge about what you're trying
to do, but it's also
an interactive environment. It's an
environment where you can explore
and learn things incrementally. And
that was very much part
of it was you could
get started doing old style
batch type scripting fairly easily.
And then as you grow
with the language it grows
with you, it gives you
a lot more capability. We
didn't want it to sort
of, I suppose, this is
one of the things that
you, you saw a lot
in the unit shells, as
you can get to a
certain point with a unit
shell, and then you had
to shift to a different
tool. You had to shift
to C or you had
to shift to arc, or
eventually Pearl. I mean, one
of Pearl's great strengths is
that it's much more capable.
It has a lot of
stuff built into it. And
so it didn't run out
of steam as quickly. We
wanted to try and get
some of that with PowerShell.
You can start with the
shell and do some basic
file operations and that worked
fine. And then you could
do text operations and you're
still finding the shell. And
then you start to do
some object stuff, and you're
still finding the show. You
don't have to go to
another tool. You don't have
to learn a language. It's
one of the things you
see in a unit shell
script is it's usually actually
a mixture of a whole
bunch of different languages. It
will be a little bit
of a shell and arc
and maybe some Pearl, all
these different syntaxes mixed together
with quoting and that's I
really wanted to avoid. And
one of the, like the
most common question that I
got trying to, when I
was maintaining arch at, at
MKS was how do you
use arc and pass arguments
into it from the shell
and get all the coding,
right? And, and even with
an expert, it was still
hard. It seems like in
shell languages, there's always this
marshaling, this uncomfortable transition as
you, as you jump out
of the shell, into the
utility and then back, Right.
We tried to minimize that
as much as possible. It's
one of these, this is
actually a problem I've been
thinking about for about 20
years. How can we take
a shell language or what's,
what's the difference between a
shell language and a scripting
language or a programming language.
And, you know, the big
thing is that shell does
a lot more for you
automatically. It does expansions, and
it does wild cards and
all of these things that
you really don't want to
have going on in your
programs. So how do you
separate them out? And we've
kind of come up with
a sort of dual syntax
mode where commands, we type
a command on the command
line, it works like a
command. And then if you
do an expression, it works
much more like a traditional
programming language. And we try
to keep it sort of
down to two modes. One
of the things, again, that
you see in a traditional
show is it has a
million sort of micro mode
as this, a little mode
where expressions work and this
little mode where variables get
expanded and this a little
mode where, where string substitution
occurs and each one has
his own individual syntax. And
they're sort of all nested
together in a, in a
fairly confusing map. And how
does, how hard does that
make it for the person
who's actually writing the parser?
I mean, you know, I've
done my computer science Lexan
yak work, and I've written
little, little languages and created
these different expression trees. But
how, how difficult is it
in PowerShell since there are
so many potential ways that
you can modify the system,
there's, there's the type expansion
where you can spot weld
properties and methods onto objects.
There's variables that can expand
differently, whether they're using a
single quote or a double
quote around them. There's and
there's all the different commands
that might already be in
your path. Does that make
it difficult to design a
language when you've got so
many potential things existing already?
I mean, you've got all
of the.net framework, you got
everything that's in their path.
You didn't just sit down
from a complete blank slate
and write the language you
had all this context to.
I guess what I'm trying
to say is that you've
got the whole of the
framework underneath you, as well
as all of this kind
of dos historical commands to
how does that affect the
way you design the language?
Well, the approach that we
used and Jim truer, who
was the PM on the
PowerShell team, Jim and I
worked together to design the
language. This is sort of
the normal way that Microsoft
works. You have a developer
and even have something called
a program manager, whose job
is to be the customer's
advocate. So they'd look at
what the developer is saying.
And to basically say, no,
you're an idiot. You can't
do that. Nobody will ever
use that. And the programmer's
job is to say, I
can't do that. That's impossible.
You want me to hold
all of the halting problem?
I'm sorry, we can't do
that. And so what we
did actually is we started
with the positive shell grammar,
right? And if you're going
to start with designing a
new language, you want to
start with something that has
been proven in a sense,
what we did is we
took the same sort of
approach to designing the PowerShell
language that the Java guys
took. You look at an
existing, very successful language, and
you say, okay, what are
our core characteristics? In Java's
case, it was the garbage
collection and pervasive object orientation.
We had again, the pervasive
object orientation. And we said,
okay, what do we need
to change? How do we
have to go through the
language and change it to
work in this environment? And
it actually turned out to
be a huge change because
it completely breaks the way
all traditional shells work, where
they do this process of,
of expansion and then parsing,
but it's not going to
work because you lose all
the structure of the object.
So we had to go
to actually a much more
traditional language, a design it's
a basic recursive descent, parser.
It is a context sensitive
grammar in the sense that,
that the interpretation of, I
notice subject to where it
appears in the, in the
source text. So that makes
it a little bit tricky.
And there are a lot
of deals between the parser
and the tokenized, but we
tried to keep it as
simple as possible and as
flexible as possible. And it
was a lot of taking
things out, this, this characteristic.
Now we're gonna take that
out as too complicated. So
we did, again, just like
the Java guy said, you
know, when I looked at
C, C plus plus, and,
and we'll take out all
the things that don't make
sense, and we, aren't going
to worry about backwards compatibility.
That was also another critical
design characteristic that, okay, we
will be informed by history,
but we won't be a
slave to history. So if
something is known to be
a problem or known to
be confusing for users, we'll
just take it out. And
so that, so the basic
shell syntax, but also informed,
differ, he had worked a
lot with DCL and he
liked the very regular DCL
syntax. So we adopted a
lot of that from, from
deck. And we had a
variety of source languages. Pearl
was very high up early
on. We did some language
reviews and got some user
feedback. And a lot of
the Pearl isms, we retained
some, but a lot of
them were, were, didn't go
over very well with users.
Didn't go over very, very
well with the reviewers. And
the other thing that we
decided to do a little
later on was to align
the language more with C-sharp
primarily because of the conciseness
of the notation. If you
have a, sort of a,
more of an algal based
language with begin and end,
it's hard to type much
on a command line. And
the average, the average PowerShell
script is going to be
80 characters long because that's
the length of what you
can conveniently type on in
a console window. So, so
is that why you chose
to have curly braces as
your block? That's right. As
opposed to like something like
blue or Python that just
uses white space Again, white
space. It's it's what, what
do you think conveniently type
on one line? And so
Python, the new line stuff
is, is actually very cool.
It has some nice characteristics.
It was actually based on
a language that was designed
to teach programming, but it
is a little bit more
verbose and it scatters the
text across multiple lines. And
in a window environment, that's
a little hard to edit.
So we wanted to be
able to type significant significantly
complex structure is while loops
and for loops all in
one line. So that was
one of the, the drivers
there, Hence that I got,
I've heard the term a
write only language or writing
online, which is kind of
a pejorative that people use
to refer to a language
that is very easy to
write or easier for some
people to write, but completely
impossible to read. And I've
seen some pretty crazy stuff
done with PowerShell on one
line and have a little
trouble sometimes reading PowerShell. How
did you make the decision
on things like using dash
E Q instead of an
equal sign? Cause the things
like that for me, at
least when I read PowerShell
scripts, I kind of stumble
over it's a little bit
of a block that I,
a speed bump even, Right.
And that was, was interesting.
And that was a, that
was a huge debate. And
really the reason that we
decided to go with those,
the, the dashi queue rather
than equal sign and greater
than, and less than was
to support redirection, we could
have actually used, equals and
not equals. But in the
end we decided that we
would be more consistent and
use the dash sequences for
all of the operators because
people want to be able
to use redirection. And because
it's a shell redirection was
more important to users than
logical operations. And we had
considered the idea of introducing
modal parsing again and decided
in the end that no,
we didn't want to do
that because you can. The,
the, a lot of the
operators work on collections. So
you can select object from
the collections that with a
single single application of an
operator, you can select things
from a list. For example,
you may want to use
redirection to save those to
a file. And so we
had used greater than, and
less than et cetera, you
wouldn't be able to do
that. Now, some, some of
the things that I've had
the most trouble with are
like the hash tables when
it starts getting into, you
know, at signs and curly
braces and parentheses and things
like that. And I know
that you can do a
lot of really amazing things
with both hash tables and,
and arrays that, that you
kind of wish I wish
that I could do in
C-sharp. You know, just being
able to say, you know,
a dollar sign, a plus
equals comma, and then just
slap some things on the
end of an array, right?
How do you, how do
you balance the, you know,
kind of really tourist, but
very useful things like that,
that, because they're so tourist,
they're almost obscure and the
average a developer's not going
to sit down and say,
gosh, I wonder if they've
overloaded a raise such that
I can do this on
one line and a C
sharp or VB program might
find themselves doing all sorts
of crazy things like a
radar resize in order to
do something that could be
expressed in a very crisp
way with PowerShell. It's a
little bit interesting because yeah,
you see people coming at
it from a programmer background
and they want do exactly
what you said and use
some of the traditional programmer
style approaches. One of the
most interesting ones is that
that a pipeline generates a
collection of objects. And so
you don't need to loop
through the pipeline and add
them to an array. You'll
just get an array out
of it. So that's, that's
an interesting approach to solving
the problems that, that seems
a little alien to a
lot of programmers, but one
of the things that's pretty
important about the design of
PowerShell is that, that we
have what we call elastic
syntax. So you can use
the short, the short forms,
these little aliases and things
to write very terse stuff
on the command line. But
when you're writing scripts, we
recommend that you use the
non aliased forms of the
names because they're much more
understandable. And so you can,
you can write in a
very concise style, you have
to be able to do
that. It's a shell. You
need to be able to
write stuff very, very densely,
but at the same time,
we provide mechanisms so that
you can write very elaborated
and much easier to read
code. It shouldn't be much
more difficult to read PowerShell
code than C sharp code.
If you're a conscientious programmer,
it's really up to the
programmer. You're not forced to
write a opaque code, but
you can, Oh, you can
write some opaque code. You
can do some crazy things.
And just sit down.
And with the advent of
the new features in, in
C-sharp three O and presumably
things coming in and sharp
three, five, and being able
to say VAR a equals,
whatever. There, it seems like
the direction that all languages
are going in, whether it
be VB nine or PowerShell
itself, they seem to be
converging on some kind of
a thing, a general way
of thinking where there's just
syntactic sugar, there's just skins
over the, over the language
themselves, given that those languages
were being developed around the
same time as PowerShell. Why
not just make the language
of PowerShell? C-sharp The C
sharp still requires a lot
of additional syntax. So for
example, if you want to
copy a file, you have
to do file dot copy,
open brand double quote, file
name one, enclosed, double quote,
comma, et cetera, et cetera.
So it's not very shell
friendly. Now, one of the
things that, because PowerShell is
a dominant language, can you
use.net stuff directly? It's very
easy to extend PowerShell with
C-sharp or VB or any
done in language. You can
just compile the class, load
it and use it. So
that, that makes it fairly
straightforward. The other thing that
that PowerShell provides is the
ability to dynamically create or
dynamically extend objects. So when
we actually do this a
lot, the object, the design
of the objects and dinette
are pretty good, but there
are still some inconsistencies, a
raise have the link property
collections have account property, a
process have process name, file
as name. So if there's
any consistencies across the, the
different objects and that's a
pain for, especially for administration,
as one of the big
things that WMI tried to
address was two canonical lies
the set of names that
people use. And that's one
of the things that PowerShell
does. You can use the
camp property on an array.
We add the synthetic property
on top of the array
type. So you can use
count universally. Likewise, we, we
add different properties on objects.
So again, you get a
much more consistent naming experience.
How many things like that
are that, I mean, did
you go through the entire
kind of like set of
things people would do regularly
and just kind of linked
them kind of with the,
with the philosophy of fall,
into the pit of success,
kind of Once upon a
time we started to do
that and we can spend
a long, long time trying
to do that. We're working
with the other groups within
Microsoft to try and encourage
canonical possession of objects. We
did a handful of things
that are very commonly used
files and processes and services
and things like that. But
we have nowhere near the
full coverage in our early
grand plans. We were going
to do everything and, and
have all of these smart
types. I wouldn't know the
know the world, but we're
not that big of a
team. Yeah. And at that
point, you'd be getting close
to isn't really powershells responsibility
to clean up kind of
the sins of the father.
Right. Right. And this is
something that, again, we work
with the base class library
team and, and the net
effects teams to try and
establish some guidelines and likewise,
to make sure that we
also follow their guidelines. This
is an ongoing effort to
try and, and come up
with coding standards and object
design standards that everybody can
live with. No, will we
see PowerShell libraries or scripts,
Or kind of commandlet packs
coming out of your team,
or is your team going
to only be new versions
of PowerShell? That's actually up
in the air in the
ideal world, it would be
best if the domain experts
provided the commandlets for, for
their technology areas in practice.
Well, I don't know. We'll
have to see, we'll probably
still provide some tools and
utilities and so forth how
the actual partitioning will work
will do will evolve over
time. Now, one of the
things that I want to
ask you about just in,
at the end of our,
of our, of our half
an hour, here are script
block parameters. If you could
explain script, block parameters, kind
of what they are, why
they're not exactly obvious and,
and what kind of power
they provide to someone. Cause
I think that people might
be trying to solve problems
where I think a script
block parameter might be exactly
what the ordered, Right? So
a script in Unix shells,
there is a way to
say, I want, instead of
reading my parameter from the
command line, I want to
read it from the pipeline
and you do this by
saying dash. So for example,
you could cat a script
file into org and say
dash F dash. And it's
a, that says, you know,
read my file, read my
source file from standard input,
instead of reading it from
a file around the command
line or whatever. So this
is a very, it's a
powerful compositional model. And we
wanted to sort of generalize
this. We tried a variety
of nasty syntactic fiddles, none
of which were particularly satisfactory
and all of which were
Baroque. And so then we
said, well, we have this,
this, the script blocks, right.
That that can do arbitrary
transformations. And so what we
will do is they'll say
rather than providing the parameter
on the command line, or
even reading it directly from
the, the pipeline will allow
you to specify a small
piece of code in the
form of a script block.
And it will take the
inbound object and it will
do whatever transformation on it
that you need, whether it's
a special type conversion, or
you want to multiply it
by two, or you want
to take some sub property
out of that property, basically
anything that you need to
do, you can do with
this transformation. And in a
lot of cases, it eliminates
the need for putting the,
the command in for retail.
It, for example. So instead
of piping into four reach,
you can just pipe directly
into the command and use
a script block. And then
the script block gets run
once for each inbound pipeline
object and doing the transformation
and then the command executes.
Yeah. We've used the script
blocks and script block parameters
for the using them for
import CSV. I just think
it's so funny that we
spent all these years moving
towards XML. And then on
our projects where we use
PowerShell scripting in a very
deep way, we keep falling
back on comma separated values
for, for our structured data
format. It seems like it's
a step forward, but also
a kind of a step
back it's it's, it's just
structured data without the angle
brackets, but it feels weird.
Well, and a lot of
people say, you know, we've,
we've done the structure data
thing already. It was called
lisp angle, adding angle brackets.
Doesn't make it all that
much difference, but it's XML
is actually not a great
format for people. It's lots
of angle brackets, and it's
fairly hard to type. And
so you can read it,
but you wouldn't want to
write it. It's good for
computers. They can read and
write it, but it's not
a great notation for, for
a lot of purposes, which
is why you see a
lot of people using the
Jason notation with JavaScript, which
is just an indented data
structure. It's much simpler than
XML. Sure. And it would
be fairly straightforward given the
structure of Jason and the
flexibility of, to build in
import and export Jason J
and so in a PowerShell.
Right. And, and that's something
that, well, I think we've
flirted with that for about
three minutes in our copious
spare time. But it certainly
something that we did look
at as, as being an
alternative data format. Yeah. It
sounds like an interesting thing
because you, as the, as
the shell designers get to
basically punt by saying, Hey,
we're just the shell. And
interestingly though, the community does
rise up and solve that
problem. One of the things
that I've been amazed at
is how quickly people have
taken things in PowerShell that
they found distasteful and expanded
on them. The, the first
thing that I saw that
I didn't like was the
lack of IntelliSense, but because
tab expansion was a function
of its own in its
own. Right. And you have
full reflection abilities. They've been
some amazing tab expansion macros
that I'm probably sure you
run yourself, that people have
created. Yeah, we were, we
were pretty happy with, with
that. And that's one of
the things that's, that's where
I see the PowerShell environment
evolving to a large extent
is to make more of
that customizable so that if
people don't like a particular
behavior, then they can extend
it themselves. That's kind of
the point of this type
of environment. So I'm, I'm
your book is called PowerShell
in action windows, PowerShell action.
And it's up@manningpublicationsatmanning.com slash Payette,
manning.com/and your last name. It
looks like it's coming out
a week after next February 12th,
That would be about right.
The ebook should be available
now. And I just finished
tarting together, all of the
examples. So you should be
able to download it directly
from the Manning website. And
then the print book will
be following shortly thereafter. And
it looks like the complete
PowerShell grammar is in appendix
C of that book. That's
right. Including the tokenization rules.
Now, if I understand correctly
and please correct me if
I'm wrong, you've got MSI.
And what people are familiar
with, like MSI exec there's
that installer technology and early
versions of PowerShell were installed
with MSI. Then there's the,
well, I think what you
guys call update dot exe,
which has the, we're not
an installer as we are
an add on or an
update to the OSTP. And
I, one of the ways
that I'm able to sell
PowerShell internally and to other
companies, as I say, Hey,
this isn't, this isn't something
we just slap onto windows.
This is an actual KB.
You don't see it. If
you go into add remove
programs, you have to click
on show updates because it's
right. It's literally embedded into
the system. So then those
are the two installer technologies
I'm familiar with. And then
there's something new in Vista
around in that room. Yeah.
There's a new component based
installation mechanism in Vista that
is designed to address some
of the limitations of, of
windows update. I don't know
the details, particularly I didn't
shouldn't work in that area.
We're gonna see that in,
in a power shell. Any
anytime now, soon, I can't
say specifics. Sure, sure. But
Before the end of 2007,
we'll have PowerShell and Vista.
Yeah. A couple of months,
I think. Safe, safe bet.
Yes. Good deal. Well, we're,
I'm looking forward to that
and hopefully the book and
the Vista version of PowerShell
come out around the same
time, because I'm going to
start suggesting this book to
all my friends. I really,
I really did enjoy, I
got to see an early
access edition of the PowerShell
in action. I think as
you were writing it, they
were putting the chapters up
there, which I thought was
a pretty cool thing to
do for a publishing company.
Yeah. It was, I was
a little skeptical about it
initially, but it turned out
to be great because I
had a chance to like
really actively take feedback. Somebody
would ask, well, I did
this, this portion of the
book is unclear or, or
I'd like to see this
explain. And I was able
to go back into the
chapters and add a new
text, new examples, and really
incorporate some of the reader's
feedback in the first version
of the book instead of
having to wait two years
and do you know, like
version two or something, Right.
It sounds like it definitely
made it a better book.
Yeah, I was I'm. I
was, I, like I said,
I was skeptical initially. I
thought, you know, who would
even participate in this? But
we had a really good
group of people. They contributed
a lot of information and
a lot of feedback. I
was very happy with it.
Well, it looks like it's
a really good deal. If
you go up to manning.com/pat,
you can get the ebook
for 2250 and you can
get the ebook and the
soft print, the actual softbound
paperback for 44 99. So
pretty good deal for a
book considering that you can
get the ebook immediately and
they'll ship the, the actual
book to you. I really
appreciate you taking the time
out of your day to
talk to us here. This
is pretty interesting stuff I
could talk for another hour
or two with you. This
it's so interesting to hear
about how someone would actually
design a language from scratch.
And I do appreciate it.
Thanks very much. Good talking
to you. And this has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.